
=pod

=head1 NAME

B<parprouted> - Proxy ARP IP bridging daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<parprouted> [B<-d>] B<interface> [B<interface>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

parprouted is a daemon for transparent IP (Layer 3) proxy ARP bridging. 
Unlike standard bridging, proxy ARP bridging allows to bridge Ethernet 
networks behind wireless nodes. Normal L2 bridging does not work between 
wireless nodes because wireless does not know about MAC addresses used 
in the wired Ethernet networks.

The daemon will listen for incoming ARP requests and forward
them to other interfaces, as well as update kernel ARP table with the
received replies. Also the daemon will add direct /32 routes to your
kernel to the hosts learned via ARP. This way, your kernel will be able
to route the packets to the destination host when it receives it and you will
not have to care about setting routing/subnetting manually. All routes
entered by the daemon will have a metric of 50. 

Unless you use B<-p> switch, all entries in the ARP table will be
refreshed (rechecked by sending ARP requests) every 50 seconds. This
keeps them from being expired by kernel.

It takes about 3-5 seconds for a bridge to update all its tables and
start sending packets to the destination. So, for example, if you have
two bridges, the bridging time can be up to 10 seconds. However
afterwards ARP entries are in the tables and there will be no delay
until they time out.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

parprouted requires "ip" program form iproute2 tools to be installed in 
/sbin. If it is installed in another location, please replace "/sbin/ip" 
occurances in the source with the correct path. As well you should have
proc filesystem mounted in /proc because the daemon uses /proc/net/arp.

A requirement is that you have an IP address assigned on all of your
interfaces that you do bridging on. There is no need for this address
to be from the same networks as the bridged networks. Any dummy address
will do.

=head1 OPTIONS

The list of interfaces to do bridging on should be given via the command
line.

The daemon accepts the following switches:

B<-d>, which stands for debugging. If you run it in debugging mode the daemon 
will not go to background and will print additional debugging information to 
stdout/stderr.

B<-p>, which makes all ARP entries to be permanent. This will also
result in that ARP tables will not be refreshed by ARP pings.

=head1 EXAMPLE

To bridge between wlan0 and eth0: B<parprouted eth0 wlan0>

=head1 AUTHOR

 (C) 2002, Vladimir Ivaschenko <vi@maks.net>
 http://www.hazard.maks.net
